README.md, before:

PlantUML Server
===============
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/plantuml/plantuml-server.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/plantuml/plantuml-server)
[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/plantuml/plantuml-server.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/plantuml/plantuml-server "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")
[![Docker Pull](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/plantuml/plantuml-server.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/plantuml/plantuml-server/)
PlantUML Server is a web application to generate UML diagrams on-the-fly.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ftomassetti/plantuml-server/readme/screenshots/screenshot.png)

To know more about PlantUML, please visit http://plantuml.com/.


Requirements
============

 * jre/jdk 1.6.0 or above
 * apache maven 3.0.2 or above

How to run the server
=====================

Just run:

```
mvn jetty:run
```

The server is now listing to [http://localhost:8080/plantuml](http://localhost:8080/plantuml).
In this way the server is run on an embedded jetty server.

You can specify the port at which it runs:

```
mvn jetty:run -Djetty.port=9999
```

How to run the server with Docker
=================================

You can run Plantuml with jetty or tomcat container
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 plantuml/plantuml-server:jetty
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 plantuml/plantuml-server:tomcat
```

The server is now listing to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

To run plantuml using different base url, change the `docker-compose.yml` file:
~~~
args:
  BASE_URL: plantuml
~~~

And run `docker-compose up --build`. This will build a modified version of the image using
the base url `/plantuml`, e.g. http://localhost/plantuml

How to set PlantUML options
=================================

You can apply some option to your PlantUML server with environement variable.

If you run the directly the jar, you can pass the option with `-D` flag
```
java -D THE_ENV_VARIABLE=THE_ENV_VALUE -Djetty.contextpath=/ -jar target/dependency/jetty-runner.jar target/plantuml.war
```
or
```
mvn jetty:run -D THE_ENV_VARIABLE=THE_ENV_VALUE -Djetty.port=9999
```

If you use docker, you can use the `-e` flag:
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -e THE_ENV_VARIABLE=THE_ENV_VALUE plantuml/plantuml-server:jetty
```

You can set all  the following variables:

* `PLANTUML_LIMIT_SIZE`
    * Limits image width and height
    * Default value `4096`
* `GRAPHVIZ_DOT`
    * Link to 'dot' executable
    * Default value `/usr/local/bin/dot` or `/usr/bin/dot`
* `PLANTUML_STATS`
    * Set it to `on` to enable [statistics report](http://plantuml.com/statistics-report)
    * Default value `off`
* `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION`
    * when calling the `proxy` endpoint, the value of `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION` will be used to set the HTTP Authorization header
    * Default value: null


Alternate: How to build your docker image
======================================================

This method uses maven to run the application. That requires internet connectivity.
So, you can use following command to create a self-contained docker image that will "just-work".

*Note: Generate the WAR (instructions further below) prior to running "docker build"*

```
docker image build -t plantuml-server .
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 plantuml-server
```
The server is now listing to [http://localhost:8080/plantuml](http://localhost:8080/plantuml).

You may specify the port in `-p` Docker command line argument.


How to generate the war
=======================

To build the war, just run:

```
mvn package
```

at the root directory of the project to produce plantuml.war in the target/ directory.

Commit message:

Cloud Run button with jetty alpine default Dockerfile

README.md, after:

PlantUML Server
===============
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/plantuml/plantuml-server.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/plantuml/plantuml-server)
[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/plantuml/plantuml-server.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/plantuml/plantuml-server "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")
[![Docker Pull](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/plantuml/plantuml-server.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/plantuml/plantuml-server/)
PlantUML Server is a web application to generate UML diagrams on-the-fly.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ftomassetti/plantuml-server/readme/screenshots/screenshot.png)

To know more about PlantUML, please visit http://plantuml.com/.


Requirements
============

 * jre/jdk 1.6.0 or above
 * apache maven 3.0.2 or above

How to run the server
=====================

Just run:

```
mvn jetty:run
```

The server is now listing to [http://localhost:8080/plantuml](http://localhost:8080/plantuml).
In this way the server is run on an embedded jetty server.

You can specify the port at which it runs:

```
mvn jetty:run -Djetty.port=9999
```

How to run the server with Docker
=================================

You can run Plantuml with jetty or tomcat container
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 plantuml/plantuml-server:jetty
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 plantuml/plantuml-server:tomcat
```

The server is now listing to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

To run plantuml using different base url, change the `docker-compose.yml` file:
~~~
args:
  BASE_URL: plantuml
~~~

And run `docker-compose up --build`. This will build a modified version of the image using
the base url `/plantuml`, e.g. http://localhost/plantuml

How to set PlantUML options
=================================

You can apply some option to your PlantUML server with environement variable.

If you run the directly the jar, you can pass the option with `-D` flag
```
java -D THE_ENV_VARIABLE=THE_ENV_VALUE -Djetty.contextpath=/ -jar target/dependency/jetty-runner.jar target/plantuml.war
```
or
```
mvn jetty:run -D THE_ENV_VARIABLE=THE_ENV_VALUE -Djetty.port=9999
```

If you use docker, you can use the `-e` flag:
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -e THE_ENV_VARIABLE=THE_ENV_VALUE plantuml/plantuml-server:jetty
```

You can set all  the following variables:

* `PLANTUML_LIMIT_SIZE`
    * Limits image width and height
    * Default value `4096`
* `GRAPHVIZ_DOT`
    * Link to 'dot' executable
    * Default value `/usr/local/bin/dot` or `/usr/bin/dot`
* `PLANTUML_STATS`
    * Set it to `on` to enable [statistics report](http://plantuml.com/statistics-report)
    * Default value `off`
* `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION`
    * when calling the `proxy` endpoint, the value of `HTTP_AUTHORIZATION` will be used to set the HTTP Authorization header
    * Default value: null


Alternate: How to build your docker image
======================================================

This method uses maven to run the application. That requires internet connectivity.
So, you can use following command to create a self-contained docker image that will "just-work".

*Note: Generate the WAR (instructions further below) prior to running "docker build"*

```
docker image build -t plantuml-server .
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 plantuml-server
```
The server is now listing to [http://localhost:8080/plantuml](http://localhost:8080/plantuml).

You may specify the port in `-p` Docker command line argument.

Alternate: Run with Cloud Run 
======================================================

If you have a GCP project, run it immediately with this button:

[![Run on Google Cloud](https://deploy.cloud.run/button.svg)](https://deploy.cloud.run?revision=cloudrun)

How to generate the war
=======================

To build the war, just run:

```
mvn package
```

at the root directory of the project to produce plantuml.war in the target/ directory.
